Hast.Abstractions/Hast.Vitis.Abstractions/Readme.md, before:

# Hastlayer Vitis Driver



## Overview

This project contains the communication service used to connect with [Vitis Unified Software Platform](https://www.xilinx.com/products/design-tools/vitis/vitis-platform.html) devices, such as the [Xilinx Alveo U250](https://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/alveo/u250.html) FPGA accelerator card via the [OpenCL](https://www.khronos.org/opencl/) library.

Note that the SH scripts in this project should use LF line endings! You'll get errors such as `-bash: $'\r': command not found` otherwise.

For Nimbix-specific instructions see [the Nimbix docs](Docs/Nimbix.md).


## Requirements

* The system running the FPGA card must be 64-bit Linux (e.g. Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS or CentOS 7.6). The installation instructions can be found here [in the platform documentation](https://www.xilinx.com/html_docs/xilinx2019_2/vitis_doc/vhc1571429852245.html).
* The device-specific software requirements can be found in the card's Getting Started page, e.g. [Alveo U250](https://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/alveo/u250.html#gettingStarted).
* Hastlayer has its own software requirements which can be found in the repository's *GettingStarted.md* file.


## Preparation

Even after everything is installed, you have to make sure that the executing user's environment variables are correctly set by sourcing the setup scripts [as described in the documentation](https://www.xilinx.com/html_docs/xilinx2019_2/vitis_doc/rbk1547656041291.html). You can add these commands into the `~/.bashrc` file to avoid having to type them every time. If running from the cloud, like Nimbix, this is probably handled automatically.

For setup instructions on the Nimbix cloud see the [Nimbix-specific instructions](Docs/Nimbix.md).


## Cross Compilation

If you want to build for a platform not in your */opt/xilinx/platforms* directory, you can set the `XILINX_PLATFORM` environment variable to the directory that contains the platform directories. For example: `export XILINX_PLATFORM=$HOME/platforms`. If the environment variable is not set or if its value isn't an existing directory then */opt/xilinx/platforms* is used as fallback.

Be sure that all .NET software dependencies are on the same version on both the target and the source computers. Otherwise the source code won't match during transformation. This will result in a different Transformation ID and the XCLBIN file won't be found, prompting a recompilation on the target machine. To mitigate this risk you can try some of the following strategies:
* Perform a system update on both machines before starting, so both are on the most up-to-date frameworks.
* [Publish your program as self-contained](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/deploying/#publish-self-contained), eg. `dotnet publish -c Release -r linux-x64 -p:PublishReadyToRun=true` (note that Ready to Run [has its own restrictions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/deploying/ready-to-run#cross-platformarchitecture-restrictions)).


### Cross Compilation with Docker

This way you can compile on your Windows machine, or any machine where you don't want to install XRT permanently. Note that you still need to download the complete Vitis XDK separately for licensing reasons and it takes about 125GB (and at least 50GB more temporarily) to set up the image. Of course you need [Docker installed](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) too. However there are no alternatives on Windows so please bear with it. Following these steps you will get a container with Vitis XDK and .NET Core 3.1 SDK installed. Please remember not to distribute the resulting image!

1. Download the _Xilinx Vitis 2020.2: All OS Installer Single-File_ version from the [Vitis Downloads](https://www.xilinx.com/support/download/index.html/content/xilinx/en/downloadNav/vitis.html).
2. Extract the Xilinx_Unified_2020.2_* folder from it (`tar xzf Xilinx_Unified_2020.2_*`) and copy the the folder into _Docs/Container_ inside this project.
3. Download the CentOS 7 packages from the Getting Started section of the card's product page (eg. [U250](https://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/alveo/u250.html#gettingStarted)), or from the [Xilinx Lounge](http://www.xilinx.com/member/alveo-platform.html) if you use Azure.
4. Extract and copy the RPM files into the _Docs/Container/platform_ folder.
5. Copy the `centos7-install.sh` to the _Docs/Container_ as well.
6. Open a shell of your choice while still in the _Container_ folder and type `docker build -t vitis .` to create an image. This will take a while.
7. Open Docker Desktop to verify that the "vitis" image appeared in the *Images* tab.
8. Clean up after the build is finished with the `docker builder prune -a -f` command.
9. Go back to Docker Desktop and click *Run* on the "vitis" image.
10. Expand the *Optional Settings* and create a shared directory by selecting a *Host Path*, and entering "/data" into the *Container Path* field.
11. Switch to the *Containers / Apps* tab in Docker Desktop and click on the CLI (`>_`) button.
12. A window with `sh` shell will appear. Type `bash` as it already has the XRT setup configured. 
13. Copy your Hastlayer project into the shared folder and access it through the _/data_ directory.
    
As you can see it was as simple as 1, 2, 13!

## Using Vitis on Azure NP Servers

If you want work with an Alveo card on an Azure VM, you need to pick the Azure-specific device (currently only `Azure Alveo U250`). This alters some of the automatic compilation steps. After compilation it submits your binary to an attestation server (via Azure Blob Storage) for automatic approval.

### Preparation

[You must request access for your Azure subscription ID](https://aka.ms/AzureFPGAAttestationPreview) to use the feature. [The feature will reach general availability on May 1st, 2021.](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/virtual-machines/linux/) Once that's confirmed you will receive an NP Quik-Start document on how to set up the Azure VM and acquire the drivers. Please follow its steps. Once the VM is running, you have to install the correct platform and runtime files from the [Xilinx Lounge](http://www.xilinx.com/member/alveo-platform.html), the Vitis SDK and the .NET runtime or SDK. Transfer all package files into the same directory, navigate into it and type the following to install them at once:

**Ubuntu**
```shell
sudo apt install *.deb
source ubuntu-install.sh
```

**CentOS 7**
```shell
sudo yum localinstall *.rpm
source centos7-install.sh
```


### Configuration

The approval process requires addition configuration. Fill out and add the below `AzureAttestationConfiguration` property to the `CustomConfiguration` in your `appsettings.json` file.

```json
{
    "HardwareGenerationConfiguration": {
        "CustomConfiguration": {
            "AzureAttestationConfiguration": {
                "StorageAccountName": "From portal.",
                "StorageAccountKey": "From portal.",
                "ClientSubscriptionId": "From portal.",
                "ClientTenantId": "From portal."
            }
        }
    }
}
```

To get this information from your Azure account:
1. Go to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. Click Storage Accounts.
3. Select your account or create a new one with *Blob Storage*.
4. The Subscription ID on the Overview page becomes `ClientSubscriptionId`.
5. CLick Settings | Access Keys on the side bar.
6. Click the Show Keys button.
7. The "Storage account name" field becomes `StorageAccountName` and the "Key" becomes `StorageAccountKey`.
8. Go back to the home page and select Active Directory.
9. The Tenant ID on the Overview page becomes `ClientTenantId`.

Additionally, during compilation only a netlist is generated instead of a bitstream so there won't be any reports based on simulation data.


### Execution

As of writing this document, the Azure VMs aren't meant for online compilation and there isn't enough space to install the full Vitis SDK. So you have to build and run attestation on a separate machine. The build machine must have Vitis 2020.2, but doesn't need Alveo hardware.

On the build machine:
1. Navigate to the application directory.
2. Configure *appsettings.json* as described above.
3. Run the Hastlayer application with the "Azure Alveo U250" device selected. It will terminate with an exception after the build is finished because there is no hardware.
4. Copy the application to the Azure VM. If you already did that, copy the *HardwareFramework/bin* directory and the *appsettings.json* file.

On the Azure virtual machine:
1. Run `export XILINX_VITIS=/; source /opt/xilinx/xrt/setup.sh` to set up the environment. You may want to copy this into your `~/.bashrc` for future convenience.
2. Navigate to the application directory.
3. Run the Hastlayer application with the same parameters you did on the build machine.


## Other Remarks

If you ever get an error *\[XRT\] ERROR: some device is already programmed* due to a crashed or interrupted execution, you can reset the card using `xbutil reset` command. See more info about the Xilinx Board Utility [here](https://www.xilinx.com/html_docs/xilinx2019_1/sdaccel_doc/yrx1536963262111.html).

If you just want to generate a simulation report, you can do that without the full build by configuring the `VitisBuildConfiguration.SynthesisOnly` custom configuration in the *appsettings.json* or by adding the following command line argument:

```
--HardwareGenerationConfiguration:CustomConfiguration:VitisBuildConfiguration:SynthesisOnly true
```

Available system memory is an important factor. Unless you have a lot, you won't be able to compile multiple projects at the same time. When V++ runs out of available memory it rather crashes than waits so it's best practice to not do anything involved on the machine during compilation.

HBM is used by default on the cards that support it (Alveo U50 and U280) but only one slot. This means that only 256MB memory can be utilized with HBM. To use larger programs with devices that have both HBM and DDR memory, you must disable HMB during compilation either by editing the `UseHbm` property of `OpenClConfiguration` in *appsettings.json*, programmatically changing the value of this in `HardwareGenerationConfiguration` or using the following command line switch:

```
--HardwareGenerationConfiguration:CustomConfiguration:OpenClConfiguration:UseHbm false
```

Like with every other `HardwareGenerationConfiguration` change, adding this setting will alter the hash resulting in a unique xclbin file so both options can be compiled ahead of time in case you want to automate selecting between them based on the input. Also note, that Alveo U50 only has HBM memory so this option will have no real effect on it.

Commit message:

Adding note on moving Docker files

Hast.Abstractions/Hast.Vitis.Abstractions/Readme.md, after:

# Hastlayer Vitis Driver



## Overview

This project contains the communication service used to connect with [Vitis Unified Software Platform](https://www.xilinx.com/products/design-tools/vitis/vitis-platform.html) devices, such as the [Xilinx Alveo U250](https://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/alveo/u250.html) FPGA accelerator card via the [OpenCL](https://www.khronos.org/opencl/) library.

Note that the SH scripts in this project should use LF line endings! You'll get errors such as `-bash: $'\r': command not found` otherwise.

For Nimbix-specific instructions see [the Nimbix docs](Docs/Nimbix.md).


## Requirements

* The system running the FPGA card must be 64-bit Linux (e.g. Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS or CentOS 7.6). The installation instructions can be found here [in the platform documentation](https://www.xilinx.com/html_docs/xilinx2019_2/vitis_doc/vhc1571429852245.html).
* The device-specific software requirements can be found in the card's Getting Started page, e.g. [Alveo U250](https://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/alveo/u250.html#gettingStarted).
* Hastlayer has its own software requirements which can be found in the repository's *GettingStarted.md* file.


## Preparation

Even after everything is installed, you have to make sure that the executing user's environment variables are correctly set by sourcing the setup scripts [as described in the documentation](https://www.xilinx.com/html_docs/xilinx2019_2/vitis_doc/rbk1547656041291.html). You can add these commands into the `~/.bashrc` file to avoid having to type them every time. If running from the cloud, like Nimbix, this is probably handled automatically.

For setup instructions on the Nimbix cloud see the [Nimbix-specific instructions](Docs/Nimbix.md).


## Cross Compilation

If you want to build for a platform not in your */opt/xilinx/platforms* directory, you can set the `XILINX_PLATFORM` environment variable to the directory that contains the platform directories. For example: `export XILINX_PLATFORM=$HOME/platforms`. If the environment variable is not set or if its value isn't an existing directory then */opt/xilinx/platforms* is used as fallback.

Be sure that all .NET software dependencies are on the same version on both the target and the source computers. Otherwise the source code won't match during transformation. This will result in a different Transformation ID and the XCLBIN file won't be found, prompting a recompilation on the target machine. To mitigate this risk you can try some of the following strategies:
* Perform a system update on both machines before starting, so both are on the most up-to-date frameworks.
* [Publish your program as self-contained](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/deploying/#publish-self-contained), eg. `dotnet publish -c Release -r linux-x64 -p:PublishReadyToRun=true` (note that Ready to Run [has its own restrictions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/deploying/ready-to-run#cross-platformarchitecture-restrictions)).


### Cross Compilation with Docker

This way you can compile on your Windows machine, or any machine where you don't want to install XRT permanently. Note that you still need to download the complete Vitis XDK separately for licensing reasons and it takes about 125GB (and at least 50GB more temporarily) to set up the image. Of course you need [Docker installed](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) too. However there are no alternatives on Windows so please bear with it. Following these steps you will get a container with Vitis XDK and .NET Core 3.1 SDK installed. Please remember not to distribute the resulting image!

1. Download the _Xilinx Vitis 2020.2: All OS Installer Single-File_ version from the [Vitis Downloads](https://www.xilinx.com/support/download/index.html/content/xilinx/en/downloadNav/vitis.html).
2. Extract the Xilinx_Unified_2020.2_* folder from it (`tar xzf Xilinx_Unified_2020.2_*`) and copy the the folder into _Docs/Container_ inside this project.
3. Download the CentOS 7 packages from the Getting Started section of the card's product page (eg. [U250](https://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/alveo/u250.html#gettingStarted)), or from the [Xilinx Lounge](http://www.xilinx.com/member/alveo-platform.html) if you use Azure.
4. Extract and copy the RPM files into the _Docs/Container/platform_ folder.
5. Copy the `centos7-install.sh` to the _Docs/Container_ as well.
6. Open a shell of your choice while still in the _Container_ folder and type `docker build -t vitis .` to create an image. This will take a while.
7. Open Docker Desktop to verify that the "vitis" image appeared in the *Images* tab.
8. Clean up after the build is finished with the `docker builder prune -a -f` command.
9. Go back to Docker Desktop and click *Run* on the "vitis" image.
10. Expand the *Optional Settings* and create a shared directory by selecting a *Host Path*, and entering "/data" into the *Container Path* field.
11. Switch to the *Containers / Apps* tab in Docker Desktop and click on the CLI (`>_`) button.
12. A window with `sh` shell will appear. Type `bash` as it already has the XRT setup configured. 
13. Copy your Hastlayer project into the shared folder and access it through the _/data_ directory.
    
As you can see it was as simple as 1, 2, 13!

If you'd like to move the Docker WLS files (which can be upwards of 100 GB) to another folder/drive then follow [this guide](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/7348#issuecomment-647160351).

## Using Vitis on Azure NP Servers

If you want work with an Alveo card on an Azure VM, you need to pick the Azure-specific device (currently only `Azure Alveo U250`). This alters some of the automatic compilation steps. After compilation it submits your binary to an attestation server (via Azure Blob Storage) for automatic approval.

### Preparation

[You must request access for your Azure subscription ID](https://aka.ms/AzureFPGAAttestationPreview) to use the feature. [The feature will reach general availability on May 1st, 2021.](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/virtual-machines/linux/) Once that's confirmed you will receive an NP Quik-Start document on how to set up the Azure VM and acquire the drivers. Please follow its steps. Once the VM is running, you have to install the correct platform and runtime files from the [Xilinx Lounge](http://www.xilinx.com/member/alveo-platform.html), the Vitis SDK and the .NET runtime or SDK. Transfer all package files into the same directory, navigate into it and type the following to install them at once:

**Ubuntu**
```shell
sudo apt install *.deb
source ubuntu-install.sh
```

**CentOS 7**
```shell
sudo yum localinstall *.rpm
source centos7-install.sh
```


### Configuration

The approval process requires addition configuration. Fill out and add the below `AzureAttestationConfiguration` property to the `CustomConfiguration` in your `appsettings.json` file.

```json
{
    "HardwareGenerationConfiguration": {
        "CustomConfiguration": {
            "AzureAttestationConfiguration": {
                "StorageAccountName": "From portal.",
                "StorageAccountKey": "From portal.",
                "ClientSubscriptionId": "From portal.",
                "ClientTenantId": "From portal."
            }
        }
    }
}
```

To get this information from your Azure account:
1. Go to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. Click Storage Accounts.
3. Select your account or create a new one with *Blob Storage*.
4. The Subscription ID on the Overview page becomes `ClientSubscriptionId`.
5. CLick Settings | Access Keys on the side bar.
6. Click the Show Keys button.
7. The "Storage account name" field becomes `StorageAccountName` and the "Key" becomes `StorageAccountKey`.
8. Go back to the home page and select Active Directory.
9. The Tenant ID on the Overview page becomes `ClientTenantId`.

Additionally, during compilation only a netlist is generated instead of a bitstream so there won't be any reports based on simulation data.


### Execution

As of writing this document, the Azure VMs aren't meant for online compilation and there isn't enough space to install the full Vitis SDK. So you have to build and run attestation on a separate machine. The build machine must have Vitis 2020.2, but doesn't need Alveo hardware.

On the build machine:
1. Navigate to the application directory.
2. Configure *appsettings.json* as described above.
3. Run the Hastlayer application with the "Azure Alveo U250" device selected. It will terminate with an exception after the build is finished because there is no hardware.
4. Copy the application to the Azure VM. If you already did that, copy the *HardwareFramework/bin* directory and the *appsettings.json* file.

On the Azure virtual machine:
1. Run `export XILINX_VITIS=/; source /opt/xilinx/xrt/setup.sh` to set up the environment. You may want to copy this into your `~/.bashrc` for future convenience.
2. Navigate to the application directory.
3. Run the Hastlayer application with the same parameters you did on the build machine.


## Other Remarks

If you ever get an error *\[XRT\] ERROR: some device is already programmed* due to a crashed or interrupted execution, you can reset the card using `xbutil reset` command. See more info about the Xilinx Board Utility [here](https://www.xilinx.com/html_docs/xilinx2019_1/sdaccel_doc/yrx1536963262111.html).

If you just want to generate a simulation report, you can do that without the full build by configuring the `VitisBuildConfiguration.SynthesisOnly` custom configuration in the *appsettings.json* or by adding the following command line argument:

```
--HardwareGenerationConfiguration:CustomConfiguration:VitisBuildConfiguration:SynthesisOnly true
```

Available system memory is an important factor. Unless you have a lot, you won't be able to compile multiple projects at the same time. When V++ runs out of available memory it rather crashes than waits so it's best practice to not do anything involved on the machine during compilation.

HBM is used by default on the cards that support it (Alveo U50 and U280) but only one slot. This means that only 256MB memory can be utilized with HBM. To use larger programs with devices that have both HBM and DDR memory, you must disable HMB during compilation either by editing the `UseHbm` property of `OpenClConfiguration` in *appsettings.json*, programmatically changing the value of this in `HardwareGenerationConfiguration` or using the following command line switch:

```
--HardwareGenerationConfiguration:CustomConfiguration:OpenClConfiguration:UseHbm false
```

Like with every other `HardwareGenerationConfiguration` change, adding this setting will alter the hash resulting in a unique xclbin file so both options can be compiled ahead of time in case you want to automate selecting between them based on the input. Also note, that Alveo U50 only has HBM memory so this option will have no real effect on it.
